Go ahead. Alright. Let me do a little voice here. How's the weather out there?
Oh, it's pretty good. A little bit cloudy. Starting to drizzle a little bit. We
need that. Yeah. We had it rain out here for a while, but it's back to hot and
dry. Is that right? Yeah. Yeah, we've been reading about it on paper. Alright.
Still a little low, but it ought to do. Okay.
I won't be using this speaker box. I'll just use the telephone directly, okay?
Okay. Can you speak up just a little more? Well, I'll try. How's that? That's
just fine. Okay. Alright. We'll go ahead and start with the questions about the
Center for UFO Studies and what it does. Alright. Are you ready? Go ahead. Okay.
What is the Center for UFO Studies and what does it do? The Center is a non
-profit organization made up of volunteers established in 1973 to provide a
place for people to come forward with their sightings without fear of publicity
or ridicule. Okay. Exactly. What is your, what do you do with the Center for UFO
Studies? Well, I'm a scientific board member for the Center and also one of the
field investigators. The Center has approximately 35 to 40 professionals in
various fields of science and we are asked then to consult on specific cases.
the Center for UFO Studies. Um.
If there were a, a first contact or a contact between aliens and humans, what
type of psychological effect does that have on the person? Well, the way you
phrase the question, of course, it's often, it's impossible to answer because
there haven't been any that I know of. Okay. Uh, so I guess we'd have to put
that in hypothetical terms. Uh, is that what you're driving at? Yeah, let me re
-ask a question. Okay. Um. Let's see. Are you trying to get at the large scale
social ramifications or the psychological? Uh, no, this is, uh, a small scale
like, uh, what type of effect has it had on a, what effect has it had on a, a
person who cited a, uh. A close encounter of the third kind. Right. I see. Well,
why don't you, uh, put that in the question then so then it's clear to the
listener. Okay. Uh, what type of psychological effect has it had on a person
who's had a close encounter of the third kind? Uh, well, Dave, uh, there's
really been a very broad range of responses, uh, so far. Uh, a lot of people
don't realize that there have been, uh, many hundreds of close encounters of the
third kind. Uh, some of the, some of them have been documented rather fully. The
kinds of psychological responses people have had have ranged anywhere from, uh,
to the fear and panic to a sense of peace and joy and wellbeing. I would say in
general that the individual personality type of the witness largely determines
the kind of, uh, response they're going to give. Uh, how conditioned are they to
a stress response, for instance? Uh, are they, uh, used to in their past
experiences, uh, social isolation or have they, uh, overcome ridicule in the
past? All of these factors, I think, play an important role in how people will
react, uh, in a CE3 case. Uh, is there any specific personality, uh, to the type
of people, are, are there many, uh, specific, uh, types of people who, who cite
UFOs? Like one, one kind of person more than another? Well, based upon the, uh,
research done at the Center for UFO Studies on what is known as UFOCAT, which
stands for UFO Catalog, it's a computerized listing of well over 100,000
sightings now. We don't seem to be able to find any, uh, strong relationships
between personality profiles and, uh, frequency of sightings. We do find,
however, that people with more education, uh, tend to be more likely to believe
in UFOs. So there is a tendency there in the belief structure of persons. Um, I
guess that's about as far as, uh, it's possible to go at this time, Dave. Uh,
let's pursue that particular line for just a second more. Um, is there any
particular reason why a person with a higher education might tend to believe in
an unidentified flying object? Well, I don't know, but, uh, it's possible at
least that, uh, in the process of becoming educated in our universities and so
forth, that we're exposed to a broader range of ideas and, uh, we are somehow
exposed to more creative thinking. And part of that creativity might be that,
uh, that life does in fact exist in, in the outer, in outer space. In other
words, planet Earth is the only abode of intelligent life. And, uh, if that's
true then, it would suggest that the more educated people, uh, are projecting
those teachings and education upon their belief structure, you see. I think
that's a, it's a very weak connection, I'm sure, and that would be really
difficult to prove it. That's just one possible explanation. Okay. The, uh, next
question is the one on, on what type of communication experiments are going on,
and you were going to talk about, uh, SETI. Uh-huh. Okay. Well, I'm going to
answer that in two parts, okay? Okay. Uh, well, go ahead and ask it. Okay. Uh,
what type of work's being done, uh, on how to communicate if, uh, contact is
made between our, our world and some other? Uh, well, Dave, as you phrased the
question, uh, it implies that, uh, communication won't take place until contact
has been made, and I think the, uh, the opposite is really the case, that we
would try to communicate in order to contact, uh, intelligent life elsewhere.
Uh, I know of two general approaches to communications with, uh, possible
extraterrestrial intelligence. One of them has, uh, to do with radio astronomy,
uh, and it's called SETI, or Search for Extraterrestrial Intelligence. Uh, and
the other has to do with, uh, UFO contact using visual means, and I'd like to
discuss each one just very briefly. Uh, the National Aeronautic Space
Administration does have a small program called SETI, and in this program, uh,
calculations are made, uh, and, uh, strategies are developed for aiming large
diameter radio telescopes into outer space in different directions, trying to
receive a signal that might, uh, somehow indicate the presence of, uh, advanced
intelligence out there. And so, we have to make certain assumptions in doing
that, uh, mankind does, in order to make sense of the signals that do come back,
because those large telescopes are very sensitive, and they do receive all kinds
of static and noise and so forth, and so, when the computer processes that
static and noise, it looks for patterns, and particularly, uh, patterns which
might be intelligently produced, like repeating patterns, uh, like some, um,
coded signal that, like Morse code, for instance, that would seem to have some
intelligence factor to it. And so, we do know that certain kinds of star types
in outer space, let's call them radiation sources, do have highly precise and
repeatable patterns, uh, of frequency, so that it isn't just the repeatability
which, uh, is important, uh, because natural sources, as I'm saying, that could
produce those. I do know, in the other realm, of course, talking about UFOs, I
do know of, uh, an effort near Austin, Texas, of a ground, uh, site, operated by
a group called Project Starlight International, and, uh, you may have heard of
those, uh, people, Dave. They've set up a large diameter circle of lights,
flashed lights on the ground, and then they have them sequenced, uh, so that
they come on, uh, sequentially around the diameter, the circumference of the
circle, uh, and the organizers of that group believe that this is one way to try
to attract attention to UFOs, you see. Well, this is just part of a larger
effort to obtain objective data, uh, from, uh, the UFO, uh, that might fly into
the area, being attracted by that light signal. And they, that group has a
rather impressive array of recorders, electromagnetic sensors, uh, I might say.
So those are the two, uh, efforts that I know of right now, rather, uh,
different in their approach, to try to communicate with, uh, alleged, uh,
advanced intelligence beings. Oh, okay. Hold on for just a moment. Let me check
something. Okay. Okay. Okay. Back with you. Okay. Everything running all right?
Yeah, everything seems to be. Good. The levels are kind of low, but, uh, I think
we can boost it up when we copy it. Okay. Good. All right. Uh, we're, uh, at the
question where I'm going to talk, ask you about if, uh, there's been any sort
of, uh, work done on speculating what life forms might look like, uh, their
exobiology or exopsychology. Okay. All right. Uh, is there any work being done
in trying to determine, uh, what aliens might look like and what their
psychology might be like, uh, in reference to exobiology and exopsychology?
Well, that's, that's a very good question. Uh, it, I think it, it is best
answered by saying yes and no. Uh, I do know of some theoretical work being done
by biologists in postulating what, uh, different life forms might take under
different environmental conditions. For instance, bilateral symmetry and the
need for locomotion. Um, and I realize that time doesn't permit an extensive
answer to this, uh, but, uh, let's just think for a moment what it would be like
to live on a very small diameter planet with the greater mass than, I'm sorry,
uh, density that earth has and perhaps with the center of gravity, not at the
center of the, the, um, the planet. In such a situation, trees wouldn't always
grow vertical, uh, from the surface of the surrounding earth, but would grow at
angles. They would be parallel, but depending on where on the earth they were,
they would be parallel and on an angle to the surface. Can you get a picture
here? Yes. Uh, so how would our balance organs for instance develop in the inner
ear, uh, assuming that we had, you know, the advanced alien life form had
balance organs, they'd have to sense that, that local gravity differential or
vector we call it. So that as you walk along the surface of that small planet,
you would vary the angle which you're walking relative to the ground. Well,
walking is one thing, but sensing with your eyes then, or visual sensors, the
local vertical would be very different than we have it here on earth. And, uh,
it might be something akin to, uh, these houses of mystery you find along the
Pacific coast in, like the Redwood forest, uh, you use optical tricks to pull
the eye and the brain and the middle ear as to what is vertical. And so you can
cause water, for instance, to seem to go uphill. And, uh, you can set a bowling
ball down on the floor and it will appear to roll uphill. You can produce some
very strange illusory effects. Uh, so locomotion and coordination of locomotion
might be drastically different. There might be a need, for instance, for
spectral filters in front of the eyes of these aliens, if they exist. Uh, on the
planet Mars, we know that there are dust storms. And these dust storms can last
for quite a period of time and can involve different colored dust, sand. Well,
we just don't understand what the long-term, uh, effects of the colored, uh,
light filtering effect, uh, of that dust might have on the visual system. Uh,
would they be able to see, for instance, in the same spectral bands as we do on
planet Earth? Uh, I don't think so myself. So this is all theoretical, of
course. I don't know of any research being done on it, merely because, uh, I'm
not sure that it can be done. Uh, it would take extensively long periods of time
to carry out such, uh, biological adaptation research. And I think at this point
we're really better off, uh, holding it to the area of theory. And those are
just a few of a very large range of subjects that one might talk about on
determining forms that alien life might face. Is that what you're really driving
at? Right, right. Okay. Uh, the next question deals with, uh, the movie Close
Encounters and, um, what the Center for UFO Studies did. And then you were gonna
give an explanation of the, the Close Encounter of the First, Second, and Third
Kind. Okay, what do you want first? Okay, I'm gonna just, uh, ask you, uh, you
know, I'm gonna first ask, uh, uh, uh, did the Center for UFO Studies, uh, work
with Steven Spielberg in Close Encounters? And then you can say, yep. And then
I'll go, uh, exactly what did y'all do, or something like that. And then you can
just, uh, fill it in from there. Will that be alright? Yeah, okay. Okay. Um,
I'll be re-recording my questions, so I'll, uh, the machine doesn't record my
questions near as well as it records your answers. Ah, I see, okay. So I, uh,
the, my questions will be the same content, but will be much better phrased
whenever I, uh, whenever we put the show on. I'll, I'll try and sound as
intelligent as, as your answers. I see. Well, alright, but you, you are assuring
me that your, your questions aren't gonna change efficiently. No, my questions
will be exactly the same content, uh, in many cases exactly the same words, it's
just that the, the, uh, physical equipment, uh, it records my voice, but it
distorts it terribly. I see. Uh, but it, it's made to record incoming signals.
Okay, that's fine. Uh, and, uh, I just can't get the telephone company to help
me out. Sure. Alright. Um, did the Center for UFO Studies, uh, help Steven
Spielberg with his, with his movie Close Encounters of the Third Kind? Uh, well,
Dave, uh, the scientific director at the Center for UFO Studies, uh, Dr. J.
Allen Hynek, was a scientific consultant on that movie, but I don't know whether
or not the files of cases at, uh, the center were opened up before you see the
movie or not.
Okay. Let's see, how can we work this so you'll come up with an explanation of
that first, second, and third kind? You want just kind of a natural lead-in to
the definition? Yeah. Uh, I'll go ahead and ask the question. Okay. Um, could
you, could you explain, uh, what a, uh, an encounter of the first, second, and
third kind are? Uh, yes. A close encounter of the first kind is defined as a UFO
sighting, which the object or phenomenon seen is relatively near the eyewitness.
And by relatively near, we mean on the order of, uh, oh, 500 to 1,000 feet. Uh,
because of that distance, then it's usually involving a craft or, or large
object of some angular size. Uh, like if you hold your fist out at arm's length,
for instance, and then look at your fist, the object could be like that large or
even larger. Now, in a close encounter of the second kind, you have about the
same kind of distance away from the witness. However, the object or phenomenon
does some physical changing to the atmosphere or the ground. Uh, it might leave
impressions in the ground, for instance, or it might break foliage, the tree
branches, as it comes down. It might leave radiation in the soil. It might
dehydrate the soil or mat down the grass. Now, those are both to be
distinguished from a close encounter of the third kind, which, uh, I think most
of us are familiar with now from the movie. Those are, again, close encounters
in terms of distance, but in this case, the witness reports seeing a humanoid,
one or more humanoids associated with the craft. Uh, these particular terms were
developed some time ago by Dr. Hynek as a result of his extensive UFO research
over the years. Ah, okay. Uh, if it's alright, we'll go slightly out of order of
the questions. I think it'd be a good time right here to follow it up when I,
with a question where I ask you for an example of an unexplained, uh, sighting.
Oh, okay. I'll, I'll, I'll leave that off with, uh, asking you, you know, do you
do field work, and then you can answer that yes, and a
little bit of detail about what goes on with that, and then I'll ask you about
a, uh, a, uh, well, have you, uh, done any field work where they came up with a,
uh, a, uh, an unexplainable phenomenon? Okay, now, do you want me to just be
very brief on the intro to that? Is your main point the case, or do you want
some field work example? Do you want, uh, uh, some, uh, tutorial here? Uh, a
little bit of tutorial wouldn't hurt at all. Okay. Let's go ahead. Okay. Um, do
you do field research for the center? Uh, yes, I do. I'm one of, uh,
approximately, oh, ten or so people in the Amherstville Bay Area.
Uh, okay. Um, what, what goes on in a field operation where you go out and, and,
uh, check out an, an unexplained, uh, a, a UFO? Uh, well, Dave, uh, it really
depends on the nature of the sighting itself, and each case is, uh, very
different. I've never found two that are alike, actually. And so the approach
that we take would really depend on the number of witnesses, how far away it is,
uh, what kind of case it is, as if, let's say, a close encounter of the second
kind. Uh, we would have to go prepared to take, uh, soil samples and radiation
tests and residual magnetism tests and so forth. So I can't give you a specific
answer there. I would like to, however, give you, uh, a, some idea of a case I'm
working on right now, which I feel relates to an anomalous kind of event, and it
involves a pilot. You may have read, uh, several years ago about a 20-year-old
private pilot, uh, who's flying from Melbourne, Australia, to a small island in
the ocean south of Australia called King Island. Uh, he was flying a Cessna 182
long-range model by himself, and he took off, uh, before sundown and planned to
land at King Island just approximately at sundown. Uh, he was, uh, about six
minutes, uh, flying time out over the ocean from Cape Otway when he reported by
radio to the, uh, flight service at Melbourne, uh, that he saw some traffic, uh,
air traffic at his approximate altitude, which was about 4,500 feet. Everything
seemed normal in terms of his engine operations, and, uh, the, uh, weather was
perfectly clear. This was his second night flight, and he was gaining instrument
time for commercial license. Another reason he was going down, according to the
data I've collected, is to buy fish at King Island from the fishermen there to
bring back for a, uh, RAAF officers' party they were going to have shortly.
So he had two reasons to be out that night.
Well, he comes back on the radio and makes a request of Melbourne to find out if there are any airplanes in his vicinity because he sees four bright, quite landing lights coming towards him, and he assumes it's a military plane.
Well, to make a long story short, the tape record which has been transcribed and then released to the public by the Department of Transport lasts for about 12 minutes and has him describing a very strange phenomenon of flying objects outside his airplane, which he describes as being long and metallic with a green light on it, which does a number of things.
It approaches him from different directions, it hovers on top of him, it orbits about him on top, and when a pilot down there says orbit, it means a very tight circle or a bank, or a bank.
He says it's vanity, which means, I take that to mean that while he was looking at it, it just suddenly disappeared, and then about a minute later it showed up far off in the distance and came at him again.
So what I can learn from this, among other things, is that he is somehow the object of attention of this phenomenon. It is a single-pass, in which case it might be a military plane. I don't think it's a military plane.
The evidence that I've been able to collect from the boy's father, the boy's girlfriend, the instructors he had in great classes at Moraban Airport, and a great deal of other information leads me to believe that we do have here a very good candidate for a UFO sighting.
And I am now actually writing a full-length book on the subject to document all of the details, which are filling four notebooks now. It's an exciting case because at the end of the tape recording transmission to the ground, there's a 14-second long segment of a very strange sound.
It's hard to describe. I guess about the closest one to describe it is you take some empty cans and put them inside a garbage can and then shake the garbage can. And they occur, what I've been able to determine is a random sequence in time.
And I'm in now of the process of trying to duplicate the sounds by going flying in a Cessna 182 aircraft and to make sound effects on board the plane and then transmit those to the ground and analyze the sound with a sound spectrograph.
And I also have a voice stress analyzer that I'll be able to look at some other factors there. So that's one of a great number of cases which are most interesting and that happens to be the one I'm studying right now.
Yeah, that's going to be great. Alrighty. Let's back up and pick up the question about large-scale social ramifications at first contact and feel free to just ramble on and on.
Okay. I know this would probably all be theoretical. If I could have to all be theoretical. But what type of large-scale social ramifications would there be with first contact?
Well, I'm sure that many people have speculated about that including science fiction authors. And I'm an average reader of science fiction myself. I think it's a field for great creativity.
Let me try to approach the question from a number of points of view. First of all, I think that mankind is likely to go through various stages of response. The first being shock and disbelief.
Second, perhaps being a form of mobilization into either a fight or flight response. And then later on, later stages would probably be more intellectual. Where the Academy of Sciences of America and the Soviet Union would probably debate the issue and so forth.
So we go from an emotional response to an intellectual response, which is guided by more rationality with hope.
Now, depending on the nature of the first contact, that's of course the key issue here. How mankind and how the individual man on the street would perceive the visitors.
Do they come in peace? What are their intentions? Do they intend the harm? And
depending on how we perceive their, their, uh, exposure to us would largely, I
think, determine, uh, the individual and corporate response. Now, if they came
in mass with, uh, the battalions of UFOs, let's say, or large battle wagons, uh,
a la, uh, uh, you know, Star Wars, I think the response of mankind would be
quite different than if they came in small groups, uh, let's say, a group of
three vehicles to every capital of every nation on the planet. I think that on
another level, looking at this from another point of view, uh, the social
ramifications of a first contact would be to force us to rethink our priorities
in life. Is territoriality, for instance, a, really a high priority or not? It
would force us to take a new look at our independency or interdependency person
to person. I think it would force us to take a new look at what I would call our
scheme of life, our hierarchies. Uh, what's important to the individual here?
Uh, I think in that realm, it probably would force each individual to perhaps
come to terms with himself as not being the supreme creation that some people
think they are. In other words, not making gods out of individuals. Uh, I think
it would probably shrink our concept of what is the universe and perhaps even
our definition of what is infinity. And I think perhaps it would begin to force
us to look at this boundary between inner space and outer space, this real,
surreal, uh, dimension that philosophers like to talk about. I think that such
an impact would contribute, I'm sorry, not impact, but first contact might well
contribute to our increased knowledge of ourselves and how fragile we are as
individuals, both socially and psychologically. Um, you see, because an impact
contact would challenge some long-held beliefs that have been around for
thousands of years. Um, another dimension, another way of talking about first
contact might be to think, force us to think, well, maybe we now have an
opportunity to leave planet Earth for other realms or other planets or other
worlds. Do I really want to leave the planet? Uh, our space program is opening
up this potential with a, uh, space shuttle, of course, that will allow us to
take reasonably large numbers of people into orbit for a while, up to a week at
a time to begin with. Uh, so, entering our psyche now on planet Earth is this
ability to leave if we want to. But we don't see long lines of people queuing up
to leave. so, with that realization, we're no longer prisoners of the planet,
but in fact, we find that we like the planet. It's the Mother Earth. It's the
birthplace of, of life as we know it, and, uh, we have no reason to leave. And
so, what's the outcome of that, but to realize that it's a very fragile
ecosphere, a closed environment. It's, it's protecting us. So we better watch
out what we do with the, uh, ionosphere, for instance, from solar ultraviolet. I
think that these are all different ways that I would think of, uh, what might
happen on a first contact. I'm sure there are many others, uh, but those are
kind of organizing concepts that I use, uh, to think about first contact, which
I do, by the way. anyone that works in ufology has to take first contact very
seriously and, uh, have some strategy or scenario worked out what you do. Is
that kind of what you're looking for? Yes. Um, we might want to get in right
here. Uh, you mentioned before when we were talking that you've never seen a UFO
and didn't you say something along the lines that, uh, I don't remember if you
said you didn't believe in them or, uh, uh,
I don't think you said you didn't believe in them. No, I didn't say that. I
think, you said you hadn't seen one. Well, what I said was that, no, I have not
ever seen a UFO. I've talked to a great many very credible people who have,
however, and, uh, I have every reason to believe them that they are seeing some
very incredible things. I guess that's one answer to that. That's a perfect
answer. I'll just phrase my question to fit your answer. Yeah. Okay. All righty.
There's another point I wanted to make along that line. I can't remember what it
is, but it'll probably come back. Okay. Um, the, uh, the next question will be
one, does science fiction have any particular value in preparing people for
first contact? Okay. That's a good question. And, well, here it goes. Uh, does
science fiction have any particular value in preparing a person's for first
contact? Well, again, that's one of those questions I would have to answer yes
and no. Uh, for those kinds of personality types that go to science fiction
movies and are impressionable, uh, or, let's say, they have a great need to be
stable in their environment and the responses environment. I would say that
science fiction probably doesn't affect them as much as it would the kind of
personality that, uh, has a, a greater need to be dynamic, to think creatively,
to expose themselves to rather diverse kinds of experiences. And there are those
differences of personality in the culture, of course. science fiction movies
that I've seen have been largely, well, opening up new vistas as what might
exist. And, so, whether or not I want to believe it, I, I'm sorry, let me start
over again. Whether or not I want to accept the impact on myself or not as
seeing science fiction movies is really not the issue because very deep in my
subconscious, I believe, is the exposure I've had to every science fiction movie
in the past, as well as everything else I've been exposed to in the past. So
that, let me illustrate this with a practical example. For many years now I have
been administering UFO drawing tests to people. And in this test I give them a
5x7 white, each white card, and I ask them to write their age, occupation,
whether or not they're male or female, whether or not they're right or left
-handed, and then yes or no to the question, do you think you've ever seen a
UFO? And they'll circle the answer yes or no or a question mark if they're not
sure. Then I have them turn the card over and draw a picture of what they think
a UFO looks like. Well, I've been doing this for many years and I have
collected, oh, about a thousand drawings now from many cultures, many
continents, many age groups and occupations. What I find is the drawings made by
people who claim to have seen a UFO are virtually no different than the drawings
by people who have never seen one. And what that says is that perhaps everybody
has seen one, but not a real one, rather than a media representation of a UFO.
Well, to me, as a psychologist, I find that rather than rather interesting data
to think about. Obviously, it's a rather small sample size and I am continuing
to collect drawings to see if there are some more subtle effects beginning to
emerge. I have postulated that with a larger sample size, I will see some
differences and perhaps differences along the line that UFO witnesses will be
more constrained in the things they draw. That's just a hypothesis at this
point. It remains to be seen if it's true. So that's a long-winded answer to
your question about the possible impact of the media, one of which being
scientific movies. Okay? All right. Two last questions. One being, is there any
particular area of the country which has more sightings than other? And the next
one being, is there any particular time of year where there are more sightings
than the other? And you said you also wanted to comment about the time of day.
Yeah, I'll talk about all three of those just in a running narrative if that's
all right. Okay, well I'll make the question so that it works out that way.
Okay. Is there any particular area of the country or any particular time of the
year where there are more sightings than other? Yes. As a matter of fact there
is Dave. Based upon a statistical analysis from UFOCAT of approximately 65,000
cases at the time the study was done, we find that California, the Central
American states, Illinois, Indiana, Ohio, and also the northeastern region of
America, continental America, tend to have higher post counters of the first,
second, third kind. But we've also found some other interesting patterns that
are starting to emerge. That July tends to be the month of the year where the
greatest number of sightings are obtained. Reports are turned in, I should say.
And also we've found that there is more likely to be a UFO sighting between 10 p
.m. and midnight than any other time of the day. And in some work that I've done
on airline pilots, I've found that there are two times of the day that are more
likely than others for them to see a UFO. The same as before, that's about 10 p
.m. to midnight, is the first peak of sighting frequency. But there's an
interesting second peak for pilots between 2 and 3 a.m. in the morning. And so
obviously this is not a finding which is related to the number of airplanes
flying. I think it might have something more to do with the visibility
conditions at night. Obviously, if your eyes are, you know, if you're dark
adapted to the nighttime conditions than you are outdoors, you're more likely to
see a light inside, obviously, than during the daytime when that same light in
the sky would be masked by the background right. So we have found some rather
interesting patterns in the statistical analyses of the data, but clearly we
need more data to really be more sure of this than finding. data. Did you think
of that other thing you wanted to talk about? Yes, I did think of it, as a
matter of fact. Okay, what is it? I'll make a question to fit it. Okay, well,
what I'm going to briefly say is that since UFOs don't occur at predictable
times and places, it makes everybody a potential witness. Okay. And
consequently, they should know what to do about it. Very good. I think that's a
good point that needs to be made. Okay. And when you get through answering that,
I'm going to ask where a person should get in contact. You know, if they do see
something, where can they get in contact with the center for UFOs? Hold on. I'll
pull out an address now. So I'm ready for that. Okay.
Okay. Let's do a little voice test here. Okay. Test one, two, three. Sounds
great. Good. All right.
Let me think here.
It's a little hard to get into, isn't it? Yeah. Okay. I think I got it. Okay. If
a person was to see a UFO, what should they do in order to keep a good record of
what they saw? Or what should a person do under those circumstances? Dave, may I
suggest that in the question you dub in, that you, well, that you give me more
of a lead-in to the way I'm going to start out there. Because I'm going to be
starting out talking about the randomness of the occurrences that we can't
predict. Science depends upon controlling the conditions and repeatability, but
we don't have that in UFO studies. So we have to do the best we can. And that
means we rely upon eyewitnesses. And then, who are the eyewitnesses? Well,
they're almost everybody. Why? Because we can't predict where these things are
going to occur, so it makes all of us witnesses, potentially. You see what I'm
saying? Okay, I'll make my question match your answer. Okay, well, let me just
start out then. Is that all right? Sure.
One of the fundamental tenets of scientific research is that we're able to
control the conditions in such a way that we can make sense out of the stimulus
and then the subsequent response. Unfortunately, we're not able to do that in
studies of UFOs because we cannot predict when and where they're going to occur
with any reliability. Because they do occur unexpectedly in time and space, I
think there's an important lesson there because it means that none of us know
whether or not we're going to be an eyewitness. Now, since that is true, I think
it behooves all of us to know what to do if we should become an eyewitness. So
I'd like to just mention briefly that the Center for UFO Studies in Evanston,
Illinois has a telephone number which is operated 24 hours a day and we
encourage people with sightings to call that number and to give the details to
the person who answers. After a person has done that, they may be contacted by a
field investigator such as myself for further information. So let me give you
that phone number at the Center for UFO Studies in Illinois. The phone number is
area code
312-491-6666.
Again, let me repeat that number. Area code 312-491-6666.
And the listeners can be assured that everything will be kept confidential and
there will be no publicity given to the details, the name of the witness, or the
sighting at all. Our entire concern is with a scientific understanding of the
phenomenon and not with publicity.
Okay. That was very good. All right. And I'm going to now follow it up with is
there any type of newsletter that the center has and is the address that you
have the same one they would write for the newsletter or that would be a
different one? Yes, it is. Okay.
They used to have a publication called the International UFO Reporter, but it
very recently has been merged with the Second Look magazine. And that's a
subscription magazine. It has pretty good quality articles in it, I must say,
and it's about two years old now. So we really don't have a publication by the
center. This is published, I think, in New York. Okay. I'd go get a copy to have
that address if you want. Okay. I don't know what your position is on free
publicity like that. I'll tell you what, since that isn't really published by
you guys, and I don't mind giving you guys all the free PR we can do on the
show. Sure. Let me say this. We do have a publication list that the, we have a
department of publications back at the center, and we've published quite a
number of research articles, reports, on specific cases and landing trace cases
and so forth. So your listener might want to write to the center for that list
of publications they can get. Okay. I'll make my question work so that would be
your answer. Okay. If a person's interested in learning more about ufology and
what the Center for UFO Studies does, can they get a hold of them and find that
out? Yes, they certainly can. I would urge them to write the Center for UFO
Studies at 1609 Sherman Avenue, suite 207,
and that's Evanston, Illinois,
60201. Let me repeat that once more. that's the Center for UFO Studies,
1609 Sherman Avenue, suite 207,
Evanston, Illinois, and the zip is 60201.
Anyone who does write to the Center should ask for a list of publications of the
Center, and I think they'll be surprised to find a rather wide range of
available books and pamphlets. There's a tape slide series that's available, and
some pretty technical reports that have been written on specific cases.
Okay. We certainly do appreciate this, and, uh, oh, uh, keep up the good work.
It's very interesting what you're doing. Well, good. I'm glad to hear that. And
if you hear of anything down there, give me a call. I'll, uh, keep an eye on the
sky. Okay, thank you. Okay, bye-bye. Bye-bye.